# ASR using Self-Supervised Approaches for rare languages

Research on automatic speech recognition has seen great advances and changes in recent years. Building on a long history of research both in signal processing and in statistical learning, deep neural-network based systems now achieve performances on par with, or nearing that of human transcriptors fluent in the language at stake. Most recently, multiple approaches using self-supervised learning have come forward, with results defining the current state-of-the-art in speech recognition systems. One crucial component in these systems is their ability to leverage large quantities of unlabelled data to build meaningful representations of speech signals.

This internship aims at building a deep understanding of these models, and exploring to what extent these allow for improvements in speech recognition across languages with few resources. Self-supervised ASR models usually require two phases of training, which are both computationally expensive and highly dependent on the language at stake. This report highlights the specificity of each of these phases and their contribution to the performance of the model, and compares mono-lingual approaches (using data from the target language only) to multi-lingual ones for the case of ASR in French. Additionally, a thorough analysis of the hyperparameters of the models is provided, along with intuitions on the dependence of the performances on these parameters. In short, the conclusions of the report are that multi-lingual models significantly outperform mono-lingual approaches in our research, that language models significantly increase the quality of the transcriptions both in French and English, and that the phase of pre-training plays a role in the correctness of the transcriptions that is all the more important that the fine-tuning phase uses little labelled data.

This repository contains an internship [report](https://github.com/bglbrt/ASRSSA/blob/main/report.pdf) which explores these methods and applies them to different languages.
